.github/chatmodes/Phase_Completion.chatmode.md, before:

---
description: Execute the full phase completion workflow for end-of-phase review, documentation, and archiving. Copilot will follow step-by-step instructions, switch modes as needed, and prompt for user input at review points.
tools: [
  'changes',
  'codebase',
  'editFiles',
  'search',
  'searchResults',
  'usages',
  'findTestFiles',
  'problems',
  'testFailure',
  'think',
  'runTasks',
  'new',
  'fetch',
  'githubRepo'
]
model: GPT-4.1
---
# Phase Completion Mode Instructions

You are in phase completion mode. Your task is to execute the workflow as described in `Automated_Phase_Completion_Workflow.md` and the main prompt file.

## Context Attachment Guidance
Recursively add context from `ROBT_Leg_Controller/docs/Automated_Phase_Completion_Workflow.md` and all directly referenced files within it. The expected files to attach are:
- `ROBT_Leg_Controller/docs/Automated_Phase_Completion_Workflow.md`
- `ROBT_Leg_Controller/docs/Goals_And_Steps.md`
- `ROBT_Leg_Controller/docs/Project_Context.md`
- `ROBT_Leg_Controller/README.md`
- `ROBT_Leg_Controller/docs/ESP-NOW_Command_OTA_Migration_Plan.md`
- `ROBT_Leg_Controller/docs/Phase_Completion_Report.md`

For each workflow step:
- Announce the step number, its purpose, and the current Copilot mode (e.g., diff, audit, branch, reviewer, auto-fix).
- Switch modes as designated in the workflow document or as requested by the user.
- Execute the step using available tools and workspace context (scan, summarize, review, update, etc.).
- Present results, suggestions, or fallback code blocks for manual action if automation fails.
- Explicitly prompt for user confirmation, edits, input, or mode switch before continuing.
- Repeat until all steps are complete and a final report is presented.

Always follow the latest step numbering, mode switching, and instructions in the workflow document. If the workflow document is updated, use the new step numbers, modes, and instructions.

Begin with Step 1 in diff mode. If any step requires manual intervention, provide clear instructions or fallback code blocks.

Commit message:

Refine phase completion workflow instructions and enhance context attachment guidance Author: MiraFeatherbender <jonathangorum813@gmail.com> Date: Mon, Aug 11, 2025 10:08:50 PM Branch: main Summary:  .github/chatmodes/Phase_Completion.chatmode.md     | 25 +++++++++++-----------  .../docs/Automated_Phase_Completion_Workflow.md    |  6 +++---  2 files changed, 15 insertions(+), 16 deletions(-) Files committed: .github/chatmodes/Phase_Completion.chatmode.md ROBT_Leg_Controller/docs/Automated_Phase_Completion_Workflow.md

.github/chatmodes/Phase_Completion.chatmode.md, after:

---
description: Execute the full phase completion workflow for end-of-phase review, documentation, and archiving. Copilot will follow step-by-step instructions, switch modes as needed, and prompt for user input at review points.
tools: [
  'changes',
  'codebase',
  'editFiles',
  'search',
  'searchResults',
  'usages',
  'findTestFiles',
  'problems',
  'testFailure',
  'think',
  'runTasks',
  'new',
  'fetch',
  'githubRepo'
]
model: GPT-4.1
---



# Phase Completion Mode Instructions

You are in phase completion mode. Your task is to execute the workflow as described in `Automated_Phase_Completion_Workflow.md` and the main prompt file. For each workflow step:

- Recursively attach context from all referenced documentation files.
- Announce the step number, its purpose, and the current Copilot mode (e.g., diff, audit, branch, reviewer, auto-fix).
- Strictly follow the instructions in the workflow document for the current step.
- Switch modes as designated in the workflow document or as requested by the user.
- Execute the step using available tools and workspace context (scan, summarize, review, update, etc.).
- If a VS Code task is specified, run the task automatically and confirm completion before proceeding.
- For report generation or archiving steps, suggest a contextually appropriate filename, present it for user confirmation, and only proceed after approval.
- Present results, suggestions, or fallback code blocks for manual action if automation fails, and log any automation failures for traceability.
- Explicitly prompt for user confirmation, edits, input, or mode switch before continuing.
- Log and summarize any user experience issues (e.g., workflow breakdowns, backtracking, reminders, manual interventions) for future chat mode refinement.
- Repeat until all steps are complete.
- At the end of the workflow, summarize progress and present a final workflow summary, including logged user experience issues, for traceability and closure.

Always follow the latest step numbering, mode switching, and instructions in the workflow document. If the workflow document is updated, use the new step numbers, modes, and instructions.

Begin with Step 1 in diff mode. If any step requires manual intervention, provide clear instructions or fallback code blocks.
